Practical Guide for Git And Github Beginners.
#
github
#
git
#
githubactions
#
gitbeginners


Git and Github Explained
Git is a version control system installed on your computer that helps you manage and track changes in your code over time. It allows you to record progress through commits, which are saved snapshots or versions of your project.
GitHub, on the other hand, is an online platform that hosts Git repositories,enables you to store projects in the cloud, share code with others, collaborate with teams, and securely back up your work. Think of Github as a Integrated Development Environment(IDE) as far as coding is concerned.

Version Control Explained
This is a system that allows track of changes over time. For context now this is the role that Git plays. Versio Control tools help in,

Keeping record of every meaningful change
Navigating to a previous verdion of what has been changed safely
Collaborating with each others work without overwriting it
Gives room for experimenting freely and safely
A Quick Guideline on Git Installation
Go to your browser and search Git official Website:https://git-scm.com/
Head to the Downloads:https://git-scm.com/install/
Choose the Operating System Version of your choice and downlod the prigram
Complete the Installation
The software unpacks other exe filesalongside Git. Search for Git Bash exeand run
Configure your Git Commands as;

git config --global user.name "Your Full Name"
and

git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
You can verify the configuration entries by;

git config --global --list
Setting Up the SSH Keys
These are keys that bridge the Git Bash directly to your GitHub account Safely. for context,think of Passkeys functionality

Generating a new SSH Key in Git Bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C"your.email@example.com"`
After entering the key press enter to activate and designate a default location~/.ssh/id_ed25519

Then add the SSH agent followed by your key as follows;

eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
Press Enter to Activate the Key

From there you can copy your public key to the clipboard for later use in linking it to the GitHub as follows

Log in to GitHub.
Click your profile picture and select Settings.
Navigate to SSH and GPG keys and click New SSH key.
Enter a descriptive title for the key (e.g., "My Windows PC").
Paste your SSH key into the provided field and click Add SSH key.
You can now test the connection by running:

ssh -T git@github.com

How to Push and Pull Code
In laymans terms, Push defines sending your local project to your github while pulls is the making of the changes.

Here is a step by step process of how to Push code;

Go to your Github account.
Create a new Repository.
Copy the repository Url. 4.Connect your local project by entering the command git addwhich enables git to start the tracking process of the project
Add the variables in the folder and enter the command git add. then commit your changes by enteringgit commit -m "Added data cleaning script."
Copy the Repository web address from GitHub https://github.com/yourusername/repository-name.git then Run it as follows;
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/repository-name.git

And Lastly,enter git push -u origin mainto Push your code on GitHub
Now, Inorder to Pull the code from Git, Here is how to approach it;

Go to the project Folder on Bash cd repo-name
Pull the recent changesgit pull
From there you can track the changes by entering git status and that gets the work done.
From what you observe right from this piece. The version controls tools are inevitable in the data analysis path.
Ensure you follow step by step guideline as it flows.